---
layout: post
title: Why Women Are Wrong
tags: [Women, Feminism, Sexification, Objectification]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---



<br><br>

<p align="justify">

For a long time I have been hearing women complain about men who feel welcome to comment on women's sexual appeal or flirt with them when they have sexy clothes on. Men who engage in such behaviour often justify their attitudes based on what the women were wearing at the time, interpreting the sexiness of the clothes as a green light for their flirting. But I have yet to see a woman who sees some merit in such an argument, and in this article I would like to try and explain why I think the argument is valid to some extent. <!--more--><br><br>

To do this, I need to give a bit of history. When we lived in tribal communities, we wore nothing unless it was to keep us warm.  With clothes having a practical purpose, there was no sensible difference between men and women when it came to the message conveyed by our dressing style as we wore the same type of clothes. However, things started to change when Christian values started to condemn nudity and encouraged people to cover their bodies for reasons other than warmth or survival. That was the beginning of nudity being wrapped in a aura of mystery and becoming a taboo. The thing about taboos is that it is exciting to imagine, or actually breaking them. This is in fact what happened. <br><br>
  
In some underground circles, groups of people started producing pornography and distributing them among those who were interested. In the beginning however, such content were exclusively circulated among the elite, who were determined to protect the masses from their corrupting potential. But suppression of a desire always leads to its eruption, which is precisely what happened. Bewildered by the mystry it carried, more and more people started to seek such content to the extent that they were heavily saught after. Note must be made that throughout this period, the content producers in the underground industry was male-dominated, so the majority of the content being produced were focused on female bodies as subject of their content. <br><br>
  
This continued until revolutionaries in France started using sexual content to promote their propaganda. To the best of my knowledge this was the first time porn was used as a tool to increase the penetrability of messages in societies. But this was one of the determining stages in objectification of women. The second decisive impact came from the refinements carried by the content producers to increase the appeal of their content. Following the use of porn as a propaganda facilitator in France, pornographic content started circulating in hands of the masses. With demand rising in the society, suppliers started thinking about ways to improve their content, which is when they first thought of sexification of pornographic subjects, which were mainly females at the time. This marked a point in history were clothes carried messages and created reactions among the consumers. Because at the time there were little foundation to conduct consumer preference analysis, content producers resorted to trial and error and refined their contents based on the feedback they would get from the market. For example, they would get their femal subject to wear a mesh gown and see the reaction of the makret, which in this particular case was immensley positive. Using the same methodology, content createors embarked on a journey of sexifying their pornographic subjects. <br><br>
  
With sexual content having immense success, other industries started getting their toes wet by trying to designing products to feed into the fervour created by the porn industry. The first industry to enter this realm was the fashion industry. They started designing clothes which helped specification of people, especially women since the society was still patriarchal at the time. This is the era that gave birth to high heels, short skirts, see through fabrics, etc. Following the eye-catching success of fashion industry, nearly all other industries followed suit and used sex in their productions or marketing in one way or another. In addition to producing products which were directly designed for increasing the sex appeal of consumers, industries started to use sexual content to promote their non-sexual products too. For example, car manufacturers started having half-naked women in high heels pose next to their latest models with the hope of increasing their sales. Furniture manufacturers had a woman with no pants lie on their sofa in a pose that expressed comfort. This trend continued and was picked up by more and more industries including the corporate media, who became the major player in sexification of women. For decades that followed, having female subjects in adverts became the status quo and the outcomes were never disappointing to producers and corporations. But the ramifications of this process is the casus belli between the main heroes of my story and is the foundation on which I would like to make a point.<br><br>

I think most of us, especially feminists, argue against the image that has been created of women during this process. I think we all agree that women are no objects and should not be treated as such. However, we have no choice but to agree that the image has been created. The image exists among us and the source of the message, namely the corporate media, is still running on full power. Whether we want it or not, the society has been conditioned on certain depictions of women as sexual; and whether we agree to it or not, female bodies have takes up a separate entity to their personality. The question now is what happens when a women wears clothes that fit closely with what the underlying forces have been defining as sexual. When this happens, I believe the woman in question is in some form agreeing to the image that has been created of her. Bear with me here. I know this is a charged claim. When a woman gets ready to go clubbing, when she gets dressed to go to the office, school, the gym or anywhere else, she should ask herself one question. Is there anything I have done to look sexier in my choice of clothes and make up? If the answer is yes, she is conforming to the conventional definition of what sexy means, because if you recall, we had no conception of sexiness when we were living in tribes. Back then clothes served a purpose and nothing more. If a woman dresses in a way that has a purpose to increase her sexual appeal, she is accepting the wrong definition imposed on her by our society. Let me give you a palpable example. If you notice, design of gear for most female athletes is in some way sexier than those of men. Look at gymnasts for instance. If the purpose of the attire is to increase the mobility of the athlete, then the same principles must apply to male clothes. But most often, the female clothes are more revealing than those of men and as far as I can see, for no apparent reason other than to make it a tad sexier. Now, the general tendency among women is to wear the sexy clothes and have men shut up. Although I think this is better than nothing, I strongly believe it is an impractical solution. <br><br>

The reason I think this is that, as I said, the source of the idea is running on full power. This is much more important than you think, because it neutralizes all the efforts that feminists are doing to change societies conception of women. For example, a more practical, and justifiably better, solution is what certain women have been employing in their choice of attire and looks. Many women rightly refuse to look sexy, and in fact, actively refrain from conforming to the image imposed on them by refusing to shave their legs and under arms. I think this is the right way of doing it with a major caveat. So long as the underlying forces are at play, the definition of sexiness is constantly updated based on what women chose to wear, and how they chose to look. As soon as companies and corporate media observe more and more of women are leaving their legs unshaved, they start using the image of women with unshaved legs on the front page of their magazine of in their online adverts. This starts a new sexification process and updates the definition of sexiness based on new inputs. And the scary part is that, contradictory to old porn producers who relies on trial and error, modern corporations now have access to all resources they need to conduct preference analysis among consumers and will take up the trend before it becomes visible to you and I. <br><br>

The reason I invited you to bear with me is this, the sexification machines are impartial. This means that if they decide to focus on men, which they recently have, in a few years or decades, the leg of a man, his abs, his chin, his beard and all the rest of his organs will have a sexy connotation to it, the same way a woman’s body has. The sexification machines have even turned Che Guevara into a trendy image printed on t-shirts worn by the youth, who probably know very little about him. If we manage to somehow be mindful of this fact, and actively try to resist the forces by protesting to their use of human beings as objects, we can start neutralizing the image that has been created of women, and stop curation of men’s image as sexy objects by the corporations and corporate media. Based on this analysis, and shocking to many of you, I think complete nudity, the same way we were in our little tribes, is a much more justified way of refusing to conform to the sexified images of humans. This is also a response to those of you who want to argue against me by providing examples of men who take their shirts off in the middle of a football field in celebration after they score a goal. Surely it is appealing to many women and men out there, but so were the naked men and women in our tribes back in the day.  They take their shirt right off and hang it in the air as a show of being happy, not as an endeavour to look sexy. Following the same rational,  I think it is not in the least a conformist behaviour when a woman gets completely naked on the beach, or after scoring a goal in a football field. <br><br>

What I am suggesting here is that any decision to not conform to that image created by the sexification machines is a step forward, assuming we fight against the sexification forces in our societies. The hardest part is to remain sober in face of the tantalizing temptation to look sexy one last time. As soon as we fall prey to this idea again, history will repeat itself and new versions of high heels will be manufactured and new images of humans will appear in the media to promote sales of other objects. So, next time you are in the bathroom with your girl friend, and you ask for her opinion whether opening your cleavage a little more is sexy, remember that the reason it may be sexy is that it has been invested on to be. And by agreeing to look that way, you are approving the idea.   <br><br>
  
</p>  
  <br><br><br><br>
