---
layout: post
title: How To Really Be Successful!
tags: [capitalism, socialism, madman strategy, game theory]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---



<br><br>

<p align="justify">
    
  
  
  United States is like a drunken thug in fancy clothes and sipping fancy wine,
  It goes around smashing windows and causing crisis after crisis.
  Then it extorts its way out of crisese by attacking other states based on a lie. <!--more-->
  Many European countries on the other hand, are like gentle people who try to be as equitable as possible when it comes to their own people. 
  But that means every penny in their systems has a name on it.
  This is probably why in Europe, we do not see a guy wearing fluorescent green Louis Vuitton head-to-toe, leaning against his fluorescent green lamborghini.
  Such extravagance inevitably means someone in the US is wearing very little throughout the year. 
  And this is why Europe is always more vulnerable against the US. 
  By virtue of being a capitalist state, the US has access to more, and thereby more dispensible, capital; 
  because it simply accumulates more capital, and when it looses it, it steals from others. 
  The consequence of this is that the US can invest zilliions in research and development, so it can invent things that generates more wealth; once again because the scantily-clad person is not a prioroty.  
  This is also why the US can take advantage of the Madman Strategy in international stage. 
  In the aftermath of his success and in one of his standup shows, Ricky Gervais said "I could have this place burnt down for a laught", to convey how rich he has become. 
  This is precisely what the US can do. They can just have places burnt down for a laugh, because it has vert little impact on the lives of their filthy rich and filthy poor. But the same thing in Europe will have a dislocating consequence of shifting people downwardly on the social hierarchy. 
 
 
 </p>  


<br><br>
