---
layout: post
title: Heidi
img: "assets/img/long/heidi.pdf"
date: July, 03 2021
tags: [Heidi]
---
  
<br><br>
<div align="justify">

Her hair is a bit greasy, and looks cute against her complexion. Her skin is spotless and reflects my image; an image I tend to shun away from. This is half the reason why I avoid remaining focused on her face. The other helf is her penetrating eyes, which burden me, and her silence, which gives me options. But I hate options. I never know what to do with them and I often choose the wrong one, which either leads to small talk, or deeper-than-erotic conversations. Either way, they guarantee negation of romance. But she does not know this about me, and am sure does not intend to give me options by remaining silence. She is just a quiet girl with hard-to-match intelligence, that makes her silence all the more uncomfortable. She is contemplative, soft spoken and hard working. She is fiercely competitive and takes her work extremely seriously. Tell her she is less than excellent, and she will disappear just to return with near perfect updates. She does not stand being inferior to others, but she is patient. She believes success comes from hard work, and while she remains quiet when others take over from her, her mind is planning her steps carefully and her determination is at work to push her back to the top. <br><br>

We are coming back from a class and are sitting next to each other on the train going from Enscehede to Utrecht. She momentarily lets me loose from the grips of her eyes, and tells me she finds it funny that the supermarket she shops at somehow knows what she likes, and gives her a discount every time she buys the items. She giggles when she tells the story. I never forget her giggles, because they sound like they come from a cartoon character. Its cuteness aside, her giggles soften the intensity of her sharpness, which is helpful to someone like me. They always make me feel comfortable in her presence. Perhaps she knows this herself, and that is why she tells funny stories every now and then. <br><br>

I can tell she has been trying to make me comfortable, and she has been successful to an extent. But I am still a tad nervous and do not show it. Because I am nervous most of the time, I have developed effective skills to hide my stress when talking to people. The problem is that I have only managed to hide it, not to diminish it, so it continues to have its impact. I don’t know all the reasons why I am nervous when interacting with people, but I do know part of it is because I feel obliged to fill the silence with words, and I often choose the wrong words for the purpose. That said, it helps that Heidi is exactly the opposite. Unlike me, she is very good with silence. When surrounded with silence, she remains calm like a little bird in her natural habitat. She just remains as she is, and lets you remain as you are. So in our trip together, we fill half the time with her telling me funny stories, and I, continuing the conversation based on those leads. We remain silence for the other half and we get to our stop. I get out of my seat first as I have the isle seat, then she gets up, and we move towards the exit, in silence. Then we walk up to a point where we need to depart, and stop to break our silence by saying goodbye. We then go our separate ways. <br><br> 
  
We are a week away from our second term’s exams. Most of my classmates are stressed, but I am paralyzed with stress. I don’t take stress very well, perhaps because I am always under its influence. If we imagine a scoring system for stress level, I am on a number three out of ten on a given day, when things are just normal. If I am faced with a task that increases stress level, say by five points, I reach all the way to the level eighth, whereas a normal person would reach the middle point. Under this level of stress, I become blind to my surroundings and find it hard to connect events to each other, let alone detect opportunities. My inability to read people’s intentions and interpret their messages get worse. Talking to people and bonding with them become a waste of time, because the little capacity I normally have for interactions, is overwhelmed by preoccupations that are permeating into my social skills faculties. <br><br>

The next day, I see her in class again. After the class, we walk to another building where our classmates often gather study. On the way, she tells me about her plan to visit her family in Germany for the holidays. Not realizing the inappropriateness of my question, I ask her if her boyfriend will join her. As far as I know, Heidi has a boyfriend, but she seldom talks about him. I don’t think this is because there is a problem between them, but because she is generally a little private. She keeps her stuff to herself and only shares what is relevant in the moment and to the person she talks to. But I bring it up that day without giving it much thought. “We broke up”, she tells me. I do not know how to respond to that. It seems, after all my effort to remain distant, I have unintentionally gotten myself into a trap once again. It happens as soon as I feel comfortable, and let myself be myself. But my intention was to continue with the small talk, to avoid talking about things exactly of this nature. But the damage is done, and now I have to say something appropriate to counter my inappropriate question. “I am sorry” I say. “Thanks” she replies. For some reason she does not seem to be troubled by it very much. My assumption is that the decision has been in the making for some time, and now that it is finalized, she is accepting of it. I then quickly get back behind the wheel, and move back to her vacation plans without mentioning the boyfriend. This way it is not obvious that I am changing the subject, while I move away from the sore sport. I am sure she notices it though, considering her sharpness. When we get to the building, I breathe a sigh of relief, and we choose a spot to work on our stuff, which means justified silence is in order now. <br><br>

Around dinner time, she starts collecting her things and gets ready to go home. She stands up, I look at her with a smile, we say goodbye and she departs. I am left with excessive stress about my upcoming exams, and the dread of walking to an dark empty room that offers me no comfort. I gaze out the window for some time trying to gather motivation to stand up, and reluctantly get up and go home to my empty world filled with stress. When I get home, I have dinner, vape, have some fruits, vape, have tea, vape, and gaze into the air while doing all that. That night, my imagination is abruptly disrupted by an imaginary conversation I have with my mother. I imagine her telling me her breasts have some issue. But the thought is so irrelevant to the moment and so unexpected, that I quickly suppress it and go back to my original dreams, which often entails going over the conversations I had during the day. I often do this and rewrite the conversations based on the things I wish I had said at the time. Normally, this is not a big problem. On normal days and with normal conversations, I replay them on my mind a few times, change the scripts, and replay them a few more times and let go of them. But some days and some conversations are harder to do this with. During these difficult days, my attempts to express my thoughts and emotions are nullified by the difficulties I am going through. As a result, the gap between what I wish had happened, and what actually happened widens, which means the the script must undergo significant changes. What is worse, is that some of these changes can make all the difference in the outcome of the conversation, which is often unsatisfactory, or else I would not think about them much. When this happens, I fail to stop replaying the modified conversation on my mind. So, I leave it to play on repeat, until I collapse and fall asleep.  Exam times are one of those difficult situations, because of the stress they induce in me. But thankfully, I am not engaging in much conversations these days. So, I have little to change and little to replay. <br><br>

With all the strength I can gather, I finally succeed to pass all my exams. And to celebrate, I join everyone else in class on a bouldering trip, although I have no intention of actually bouldering. I just join them to drink a cup of coffee, and to fulfill the ritual after an alleged triumph of passing my exams. But Heidi intends to boulder. When we get there, she changes into appropriate clothes, which comprise of a red top, black tights, and borrowed bouldering shoes. She finds it fun it seems. After climbing a few walls, and falling a few times, she approaches me with chalky palms and invites me to join her. I refuse, because I know I will have body ache for a few days after. And since I am not planning to continue coming back, I see no point in suffering the pain. I also hate to wear borrowed shoes, unless I am equipped with an extra pair of socks, which I am not at the moment. In retrospect, what I did not realize at the time was that there was much more to that moment than my stupid socks and body pain. What I did not realize at the time, was that her invitation and my refusal would remain etched on my mind for years to come. I have no idea why, but I guess it may be because when I revisit the experience in my mind a couple of years later, and zoom on her face and gestures, I sense some frustration in her invitation. She was frustrated by my lack of engagement perhaps, and this was reflected in her tone. If not in reality, certainly in the reproduced image on my mind at least. But I may very well be wrong. After all, reading people’s faces is not my forte. I will realize all this later, but right here and now, I do not read much into things and the issue is dropped with no one seeming to care about it, in my understanding at least. After a couple of hours, people get tired of climbing and falling, and we get ready to go home. We all walk to a point where we have to go separate ways, and we say goodbye. We get on our bikes and go our separate ways. <br><br>

 To finish the term, we have a presentation to do, and then we are all off for the summer. So, the next day we all get to our rendezvous to work on our posters together. Ramona joins us too. She is our classmate, but she has two kids, so she only joins us when it is her husband’s turn to look after the kids, and this time, it is. We all start working on our presentations and occasionally break the silence by talking about random stuff. On one of these occasions, the topic, picked by Ramona, is relationships. So, people start talking about their partners, and generally about relationships. We all have half of our attentions on our work, and the other half on what is being said. In the process, and in a moment of my inattention, Ramona puts me under the spotlight and asks about my relationship status. I almost get diarrhea under stress. I tell her I am single. She asks whether I am looking. I say I am. She then pushes me to a point where I share more than I like. “People I like are either taken, or don’t like me back”, I tell her. “Heidi is single!”, Ramona is quick to reply. At that point I go blank. Too much information to process. First of all, there is no mistaking that the two statements, mine and Ramona’s, are to be consequential. Also, by all imaginable accounts, her statement created an expectation for me to say something like, “But Heidi will not take me” to push the conversation forward in expectation of Heidi saying she would, or wouldn’t. But I was not sure this whole ordeal was approved by Heidi. You see, Ramona is a sort of person who takes the initiative to make matches. I can totally imagine her do that without Heidi’s consent, but out of kindness nonetheless. It may also be possible that they talked about this before. But if it was not with Heidi’s consent, why did she not object. To find the answer, I continue to drown myself deeper and deeper in imagination. I think to myself that Heidi is a kind of person who would not firmly object in the heat of the moment, even if she has objections. Perhaps to save Ramona’s face, or because deep inside, she does not mind for the match to be made. Then I start imagining about the prospect of this becoming real. I imagine the horrible person I become when stressed. I imagine my failure in my marriage, and how my character was not mature enough to save it from falling apart. Then I get in a vicious circle of analysis and panic. By the time I bootstrap myself out of the bottomless pit I am drowning in, the conversation has long moved on and the moment is long lost. I don’t know how long I was away for, but when I come to, people are busy normalizing the situation created by Anna, and I am in cold sweat. But the moment is too far behind to revisit, and every moment that passes, it becomes more and more elusive and thorny as a subject. I always wish I was street wise. I envy people who can think on the spot and respond in the heat of the moment with a witty remark. But I am not that person, and the skill is not something I can acquire, of that I am sure. <br><br>

For better or worse, the topic is dropped and we all get up and walk to a point where we should go our separate ways, we say goodbye and go our separate ways. On the day of the presentation, we all appear, present our shit, then walk to a point where we should go our separate ways for the summer. We say goodbye and go our separate ways. I am travelling back home tomorrow, so, I have a lot to do. I go back to my empty apartment, sit for a little while to gauge the depth of my loneliness and start packing. I check that I have all the items in my mental list, in the same order; and after making sure I do, I prepare to sleep. The next day I go to the airport and travel to Iran. I get home, get a shower and take a sleeping pill to be able to sleep, because I normally can’t sleep after a certain time. I start the next day with the usual. I have breakfast, go to my bathroom, vape, come out, make a coffee and sit in the living room with my mom to see what has been going on. We talk from here and there, and we land on the issue with her breasts. I am in no way shape or form superstitious, but I also have no doubt that I knew about it from my imaginary conversation with her. No doubt. I tell her this and she smiles. She does believe in superstitions, and hence accommodates the experience casually, as if it is something that happens. But then again, the problem is serious enough not to allow further concentration on whether I am a medium or not. She tells me about her schedule for chemotherapy and the process we have to go through to get things done. It seems there is a lot to do. Later I realize the volume of the work was nothing compared to the trauma we, and especially my mom, were about to go through. <br><br>

Every three weeks, we have to go to her doctor, whose office looks like a shelter for flood-stricken victims squeezing next to each other as there is not enough room for all of them. Thankfully, port-operation patients are prioritized. We go there every three weeks, get a prescription and go home. The day after, I wake up at 5 am, get the prescription, and go to her insurance office to approve the prescription. The place makes the doctor’s office look like Stonehenge on a rainy workday. I get there at six just to be the 50th person in line. So I wait in line along with people who are angry, frustrated, and impatient. But we are all desperate because there is no other place to get the medication, even if we decide to pay for them. So we tolerate each other and wait. After getting the approval, I walk across the street to a specialized pharmacy to fill the prescription, which is the scariest of all stages. With Trump pulling out of the nuclear deal with Iran, the possibility of the medication becoming scarce is more than a possibility. Thankfully, the medication is available for the first two rounds, but to my dread, the original medications are not available for the third round. The pharmacists tells me he has the Indian version, and asks me whether I want it or not. I tell him I do not know, because I have no idea how different they are. He assures me there is no difference and gives me the medication and I go home. The next morning when we go to the hospital, my mom receives the medication, and they are different. The moment she is done with her chemo and we get on the lift to go to the ground floor, my mom bends over and starts squeezing and twisting her knees begging me in fear to stop the elevator. I have never seen her this scared in my life. I ask her what’s wrong, but she does not have time to explain. She just tells me toilet. So, I press number two and thankfully get the button just in time. The lift stops, I rush out to look for a toilet because she cannot see clearly. I quickly find the toilet, and guide her towards it. She goes inside without saying a word and I am dead scared. Things are absolutely fine if side effects are limited to a rush of diarrhea. But what if there are other side effects? How do I find out? I think and think, trying to avoid accepting there is no way to tell except to wait. But that seems to be the only viable answer. So, I reluctantly accept to wait and remain calm, and that is what I do. Thankfully, the remaining three times I fill her prescription, the pharmacy had the medication available once again, so I quickly forget about it. After three months, my classes are about to start, and I do not contact my professors to tell them I will be a bit late, or that I will take classes online or something. I think part of the reason is that I am tired, and part of it is that my brother is taking over. He is scheduled to arrive a day after I leave. So, things work out fine and I leave to go through another year of stress and loneliness. <br><br>

During the second year, the program requires students to take a track to do their thesis in. As a result, we do not see each other as often as in the first year, but I see Heidi almost every day, because we choose the same track. That is no cause for celebration though, because my mind is even more absent than in the first year. Even the idea of asking her out is nowhere to be found on my mind. I am certain my experience in the summer has some impact on me distancing myself from the thought. I was extremely distressed during the summer and did not want to add to my stress by thinking about a relationship. This is specially the case because I need active mental and physical participation if I decide to be in a relationship. There is always a part of me that must be designated to these mental and physical activities. Whatever that is left over, which is often not very much, can be allocated to enjoying the relationship. This is often the reason why I find my relationships tiring and find the urge to step away from them after a while. Interactions do not come naturally to me. I see them as effortful processes that need to be supervised, checked and refined. Even with such meticulous maintenance, I often fail to keep them from falling into the abyss. But this is the only way I know how to have a relationship. It is like having an out of the body experience, even when I have someone else’s skin next to mine, which should naturally warrant an automatic and instinctive presence. But part of me somehow manages to watch from above, always. Taking all of these into consideration, I decide against challenging myself with a relationship, and begin justifying the decision by thinking about Heidi’s character. I focus on the fact that she is competitive and conclude we cannot be together because I despise competitions. I think people should not need to compete with each other if access to opportunities and resources are distributed equitably. In such a society, only those compete who enjoy what they do, and that is not because they want to be better than others, but because they want to be better at what they enjoy doing. But I also think my judgment is muddied by the atmosphere prevailing in our class. My classmates are extremely, and I even daresay sickly, competitive. They do not share their notes and works, they tend to hide things they find, and never volunteer to help each other if the outcome is determinant of their superiority. I don’t think highly of myself in general, but I can claim with confidence that I am not like this. <br><br>

One one occasion, one of my classmates whose mother passed during the first term, contacted me on the day an assignment was due. In fact, she contacted me a couple of hours before the deadline, and told me she had completely forgotten about the assignment and asked me whether I would be willing to share mine with her. I sent it to her from my phone, so I would not keep her waiting until I get home. And I sent her the complete thing, with my answers and everything. The next day we go to class, another classmate, who I call Mr. Fox because he is foxy clever, takes the initiative to apologize to the classmate who asked for my assignment. I then realize she had gone to Mr. Fox first, but he left the message unread the morning after. Couple of weeks later, the classmate whose mother had passed and I got in the same group to provide consultations to bachelor students who were having difficulty with their work. After each consultation, the students were supposed to fill out a form, which we then needed to hand in as a proof of providing the consultation. At the beginning of our session together, I ask her whether she prefers that we see students separately, or together. To my satisfaction, she preferred we simultaneously provide consultation to the same student. I liked the idea because it lowers my stress of having to be the sole communicator in the meeting, and also improves the outcome as there are two brains working on the issue rather than one. So we got on with it and provided consultation to three students during the session. The problem was that we needed to somehow divide three by two since it was not recommended that we put both our names on each three forms and hand them in together. But I did not say anything, expecting after what I had done for her, she would offer me two and get one herself. And I expected this because it had no implications whatsoever on the grade we were going to get. It was just a formality to indicate we did give consultations. And as long as our names appeared once, we were fine. So, I waited for the nice gesture and waited some more. But she was holding the forms and did not seem to want to volunteer to share them with me, not even one, let alone two. So, I saw no choice but to remind her of it. She then reluctantly gave me one of the forms and left. My point with this story is not to indicate Heidi is the same, because she is not. But I can’t help but to be under the influence of the toxic culture prevailing in our class, and to see her in the same light, although I am sure she is much more moderate that the rest of the people in class. <br><br>

Right or wrong, I use such alibis to not engage in any conversations with Heidi that would indicate interest even in the remotest sense. We go to school together, we sometimes share the train, and we go home at the end of the day. On one of these trips, she gives me the good news that she has been accepted to a PhD program in Germany, and that she is thinking of accepting the offer. She seems happy, and proud, especially by the idea that she is going to be a doctor. She finds it hard to believe. But I congratulate her and invite her to see how she is exactly right for the title. A week later, she tells me she accepted the offer and is bound to start in July, which is a couple of months after we finish school and three months from now. It is the beginning of May, and I am under a lot of pressure to write up my thesis and hand it in. Not seeing an easy way out of it, I close my eyes, dive under water and come out at the end of May, with my thesis handed it and defended. I do not get a good grade, but I am glad that it is over. When done, I do not say a compassionate goodbye to my classmates. I never do, because I do not like the experience of saying goodbyes. So, I just leave with a casual goodbye, even though I know I am not even coming back for my graduation ceremony. I immediately get a ticket and go back home to bring my mom to visit my brother and his family who live half an hour from me in the Netherlands. When I get home, I make all preparations, make sure she has all medications that she needs, and bring her to the Netherlands to see my nephew and her grandson. My mom is thrilled to be with all of us. I am too. But deep inside, I am suffering deeply. I am once again faced with a decision to make. During the first year of my degree, my application for residence in Canada was approved. Being an Iranian during Trump's presidency, it was natural for me to have a plan B. If for any reason I do not manage to get a position in one year after my graduation, I will have to leave the Netherlands and go back to Iran, which I do not like to do. But the downside is that I have more options now, and I hate options. I spend the entire summer deciding what to do, and release my stress via online shopping, which not only does not relieve my stress, but mixes it with guilt. <br><br>

Summer passes much more quickly than I expected, which brings me face to face with my inevitable decision. I take my mom back to Iran, and spend a couple more months thinking about and discussing my situation with others. After much agony and pain, I decide to immigrate to Canada for three main reasons. One is that in the Netherlands, people are not accommodating. This statement needs to be taken with a huge grain of salt, because Dutch people are notoriously direct, to a point they are considered rude. This means they have no inhibition to show their dissatisfaction with you as a foreigner if that is how they feel. However, on the other hand, they are extremely fair as a people. Even if they dislike you and your presence, they abide by the law and remain fair in their efforts to uphold the law. But I have options, and decided to chose the better one. Canada is nothing like that, I think. With the country being run by immigrants, I imagine it should be more accommodating to foreigners than the Netherlands. The second reason for my decision is that I will be away from my brother and his family. Although I hate the idea of being away from my nephew, I think my presence makes turmoil and crisis inevitable eventualities regardless of my efforts to avoide them. That is a general fact, and not necessarily related to my brother. But it is worse when it comes to my brother, because he has grown sensitive to my idiosyncrasies, which causes us to have frequent ugly fights. So the farther I am, the better it is, for both of us. The last reason is the security that my Canadian residence provides me with. To be able to remain in the Netherlands, I need to fulfill certain requirements, such as being employed by a company that can apply for my visa, and maintaining that job for four consecutive years. Canada on the other hands, does not have any requirements other than me being there for three years of a consecutive five, employed or not. This is good because it removes the stress of loosing a job and not being able to find another in three months, which in the Netherlands leads to my deportation. <br><br>

So, I decide to pack my belongings and travel to the Canada with nowhere to go and no plans in mind. I arrive in Toronto, get an AirBnB for three nights and use the time to rent a condo as they call it. I spend the first couple of months finding my way around town, locating shops, libraries and the rest of amenities that I need. Then I gradually start applying for jobs just to realize it is nothing like I expected it. For one thing, Canada is in no way neutral when it comes to upholding laws and regulations. With immigrants forming communities in Canada, the job market is mostly sectorial, which means you have to find the right connections in order to get a job. Without connection, finding a job is an uphill battle. The second major difference is the other side to the absence of pre-requisites for citizenship. This means the state does not have a calculated plan for what every immigrant is going to do when they arrive. Although as a skilled immigrant, you get your residence because you have certain skills, it is not necessary for you to have an offer before you are admitted in the country. The downside of this system, is that you are left to your own demise while your expenses increase many-folds. Accommodations, internet, utilities, mobile plans, and many other things in Canada are among the most expensive in the world. So, if you do not have a plan before you get in, you may very well be walking into trouble. And walk into trouble, I did. <br><br>

I start aggressively applying to jobs everywhere, but to no avail. A friend recommends me to register with some recruitment agencies in Toronto who help job seekers with their job hunt. I do that. They review and update my CV and wish me good luck. Then I am sent on my way to look for a job on my own, but do not manage to get so much as a decent reply. The experience is not normal, so I start asking around. I find many with the same experience and we start developing some theories based on our knowledge of the system, which I mentioned earlier. Canada is sectorial in nature. Many of the people in HR departments of companies, already have friends and family members looking for positions. They take all CVs but prioritize the application of those they want to get the job. This is why many of the people who apply without knowing anyone on the inside are disappointed even when they have the merits. <br><br>

As I am developing theories about the workings of the system, news breaks that a pandemic has hit, and has hit hard. Initially I, and all others in the world, do not realize the severity of the problem. But I, and others in the world, soon realize that it is no joke. The government gradually starts shutting down stores and companies, and people go back to their nests shocked and bewildered. I, above all, am completely lost. Before the pandemic, I received one reply for every ten or twenty applications I would send. After the pandemic, zero. I do not receive any updates whatsoever from my submitted applications. After a couple of months of shooting my CVs straight to companies’ bins, and coming to terms with the new status quo, I am forced to reflect on my life, on my immediate and distant past, and on what the future may hold considering the circumstances, which is the cruelest of tortures for a person like me. I am naturally prone to overanalyzing my situation and my relation to the world. But with ample time I have on my hands now, this is quickly taken out of proportion. I think about my mom, I think about the two years of studying prior to coming to Canada, and I think about Heidi. Endlessly. I go through my experiences with her. I revisit all of the memories I have with her. I reprint all the images I have of her in my mind and look at them with regret. In fact, it is during this process that I come to realize there may have been some frustration hidden in her tone when she invited me to boulder with her. This is how I realize I froze when Ramona told the group that Heidi was single. This is how I come to realize what I had and what I lost. <br><br>

Originally, I associated some of my new feelings to the absence of anti-depressants in my system. Right before the pandemic, I decided to give them up because I really did not see any improvements in my life as a result of taking them. What I was not expecting, was what I would feel in their absence. A few weeks after giving them up, I started feeling again. Sure good and back came in an inseparable cluster, but I could feel them nonetheless. I could feel the urge to have sex. In fact, I began to desire a companion. I began to fancy Heidi like I had never before. I began fantasizing about kissing her lips and touching her skin. I began imagining things I was not imagining for years. Later I realized, although stopping my medication had some impact in me feeling what was absent in my life, it did not explain everything that happened. For example, I could not find a relation between stopping my mediation and my difficulties with interactions, especially because I still had the same problems. In fact, I still find interacting with people difficult, and I still need to allocated a big chunk of my mind to analyzing the events in real time. <br><br>

Everyday I wake up, I hope the pandemic becomes under control so that I do not have to think more about my past. But the pandemic is here to stay, and I am locked in a room with my demons. So, I surrender. I look into my demons eyes, and they take me on trips every day and show me how I fucked up. I come back beat and shattered and find it hard to think of a solution other than sending Heidi funny videos every now and then to let her know I am thinking about her. To my satisfaction she finds them funny until one day I decide to send her a letter explaining what I am going through. So I write a letter.<br><br>

“After 9 years, I stopped taking anti-depressants two months ago. The first thing I realized was how my emotions were harnessed and toned-down by the medication; and the most troubling question roaming in my mind is whether I would ever had a chance with you if I was free of their effect and would have asked you out!”<br><br>

I write the letter, wait for two weeks to make sure it does not have inappropriate comments and send it off. Then I wait for two more weeks, and decide it is a ridiculous message. Say she says yes, what then? Do I go back to the Netherlands and ask her to join me there? Or ask her to move to Canada to be with me? Being an Iranian, I can only get a visa for the Netherlands apart from Canada. But she is in Germany. Besides, who in their right mind would leave their job and relocate to another country to be with a person who, as far as they know, rejected the offer when he had a chance? And that is conditional on an offer having existed in reality. So I delete the message and receive a notice from Facebook that the message may not be deleted if the recipient has seen the notification, or something to that effect. So, I hope to god she has not seen it, but I guess she has, because that is the last time I receive anything back from her. I start normalizing the situation by sending her some more funny messages, but she is nowhere to be seen. My messages do not even get the tick that they have been seen by Heidi. <br><br>

Then I am pushed to reflecting on my behaviours again. I start cursing myself for complicating everything. Why didn’t I just ask her a few casual questions? Surely it was easier to handle had I asked her how she was doing? Or even whether she is still single. As a friend, I think these questions are more normal to ask aren’t they? Then I start beating myself up and hating myself for the stupid person that I am. I go deeper and deeper into depression and my anxiety goes through the roof until one night, I come across a video called “Could it be Aspergers” by Prof. Tony Attwood. In the video he describes the defining characteristics of autistic people, and I gradually begin to rise in my seat. It feels like I come with a manual, and he is reading it out loud. I get confused and dig a little deeper. But the more I read, the more I am convinced I have autism. So, I contact my family doctor to refer me to a psychiatrist. She refers me to a psychiatrist, who takes two weeks to contact me, and an additional 45 days to see me. I go there and she tells me autism is not her expertise, and that she does not know a centre in Toronto where the service is provided. She sends me home with some medication and leaves it to me to find a centre that does the diagnosis. She also asks me to let her know if I find one. <br><br>

I do not fill the prescription and continue my search online. After weeks, I find a centre that does the diagnosis and I contact my family doctor to refer me to that centre. She refers me and they contact me after four weeks and tell me to wait. A few months later, I contact them again and tell them I am kind of desperate, and ask them about my status is in line. They tell me there is at least another year of waiting before I get contacted for the diagnosis, but they provide me with contact details of some other centres in Toronto that carries the diagnosis for a fee. I contact two of them and decide to move forward with one of them, because they offer a discount. I pay the fee and soon they arrange a meeting with me, then another one, then one with my brother, then contact me again to tell me I am close, but not autistic. The funny thing in the report is that based on my answers, I was diagnosed with autism, but based on my brother’s assessment, I wasn’t. I did expect this to happen, because right before my brother had the interview, he told me he would do it but he was sure I was not autistic. To refrain from pushing the diagnosis in either direction, I refused to ask him to maintain his objectivity, which I later regretted. It was he who was being biased from the start. But it then turned out he was right and I was not autistic. <br><br>

So I lose all hope to have some relief from the guilt I have for the mistakes I have made in my life in general, and with regards to Heidi in particular. But I failed to get that relief and have to continue to be scorched in the shadow of my stupidity. Over the next few months, I continue going through my past experiences and adding to my self-hatred. But my problems are more detectable, now that I know more about autism. I can’t unknow what I already know, and I cannot see things in any light but in the shadow of autism lingering over my interpretations. For example, I notice that every time I talk to someone I fail to say what I want to say, because I am under stress. Every single time, I fail to express my intentions, my feelings and my requests. I always include irrelevant information in my conversations and correspondences because I cannot exclude them no matter how hard I try. I realize I have even developed mechanisms to overcome some of these. For example, I mostly ask someone to go through my emails, or write them and send them one or two days after. If I find them sensitive and important, I sometimes wait for a couple of weeks before sending them off, like I did with the message to Heidi. I can go on with the list, but I won't because it's just too long. Suffice it to say that with more educated eyes, I begin to pile up evidence that I am autistic and get back in touch with the supervisor of the psychologist who diagnosed me. As always, I do not manage to exclude the whole truth, so I warn him outright that I may be seeking a diagnosis that I do not need because I am desperate. And I repeat this on three occasions using different sentences to make sure I am clear on it. Then I ask for his permission to send him the list of evidences that I have gathered over the months since my diagnosis. He welcomes me to do so, and replies promptly after receiving them. Based on my email, he recommends that we meet up when things open up again. This is because one problem I had with the report was that it mentioned I had no problem maintaining eye contact, which seems to be a sign of having autism. My argument was that it is entirely different to look at a screen than into someone’s eyes. This is why the supervisor suggested we wait until we can meet in person. But that is not what I wanted, although that is what my email implied. So, I struggle for a few days to figure out how I can explain what I want, which is to meet virtually as soon as possible. So, I send him another email. He is supportive and arranges a meeting with me and my original psychologist. We have the meeting, they ask me questions about my list and my new insight, and tell me they will get in touch with me in a couple of weeks. <br><br>

While I wait, I continue sliding down into the abyss with my depression, and loose hope that I can break free from my own ruthless judgements. As if the energy I had was only sufficient to ask for a second opinion, I consider the matter resolved, and carry on looking for alternative solutions. Two weeks pass and the judgment day arrives. I go online and my original psychologist is waiting for me. His supervisor arrives with a minor delay and has to take an urgent phone call as soon as he arrives. Then my original psychologist tells me based on his initial knowledge of me, and the additional information I have provided them with, they have concluded that I do have autism, but a mild one. I freeze. I try to answer the remaining questions that they ask me, without being able to know their intentions. That is what I often do, which explains why I start answering questions with a lag. During the lag, I think about why the person is asking what they are asking, then move onto focusing on what they are asking, and then reply. But not today. Today, I just answer and record. I record them while frozen so that I can go over them at a later stage when I am defrosted. They give me an updated report with some additional resources I can use for support, and wish me success in getting the help I need. I hang up and don’t know what it all means. Does this mean at least some of my mistakes can be justified? Can this mean that my condition was at least in part responsible for the intense anxiety I was feeling throughout my education? Does this mean the sub-optimal grades that I received had to do with my autism? Can this mean the PhD applications that were rejected due to my grades and the job interviews I did not manage to do well in, are justifiable considering I needed accommodation? Most importantly, can this mean I am not entirely stupid for failing to see Heidi’s invitation as a hint to hang out? Can this mean I am not the dumbest person on earth when I froze in face of Ramona’s comment? Does this mean I can forgive myself? Does this mean I could have a chance with Heidi now? My diagnosis may help in explaining why I behaved the way I did, but the explanation is that I have a developmental disorder. Is this any better than being the dumb ass I was? And finally, can this short story transfer the message to Heidi that I am sorry for missing the opportunity? 
<br><br>


</div>
<br><br>
<br><br>
<br><br>
<br><br>
<br><br>
<br><br>
